---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: extension project"
---

### Our project (Team A)

Our extension was a dictionary app. Click on the button in the taskbar, and a popup appears which lets you type in a word then open the Merriam-Webster dictionary page.<!--more--> All of our group work was done in person or on zoom. It was much easier to be able to communicate by talking, instead of trying to do everything over github and slack. Also, because of the small scale of our add-on, we had to work together on many files.

I made some of the basic files, like the code of conduct (from the Contributors Covenant) and a manifest.json. Originally when our idea as a little bigger, Blake and I also were preparing to work on code for showing saved words as flash cards, creating some dummy data and code. But we ran into some trouble with having to learn the local storage API, and as a team we decided to scale down out project.

After changing our idea, most of the work was done as a group by Mariah and Ayden (since working seperately on the same file would create unnecessary complexity). At least my icon stayed 🙂.

#### What I learned

I have created a chrome extension before, but it was more concerned with what I injected into the page instead of the APIs offered to extensions. During this project I learned about how to create popups, how a popup can communicate with injected code, etc. Of course, I also learned how one would properly make a repo open source on github.

Something I learned about working in a group like this is that working in person is much easier than working with strangers through messages and git. This makes me wonder how an open source project could be built from the ground up by multiple people like our extension, without zoom or better communication.

### Other teams

The other teams' presentation were a lot of fun. Some of my favorites were the youtube blocking one, and Blinking Borders. One funny thing is one of my team's original ideas that was thrown out there, which was *More* Ugly Brightspace instead of Less Ugly Brightspace. It would have had some disco lighting or someting else hideous. Overall, I liked seeing all the group's presentations and add-ons.