---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: open source industries"
---

### The movie industry

I found the story of the rise of open source software in the movie industry really interesting.<!--more--> They started with mostly proprietary, specialized software, but as there was more and more collaboration, employees changing studios, the Academy Software Foundation, and more, open source took over.

One interesting fact about the industry was how the employees moved around a lot. They would work on one movie, then move to another studio working on another, etc. It makes sense to use open source software, so that they wouldn't have to learn a new pipeline or enviroment every time.

### Open source is good

I remember one quote from a video that was something about how a company could get 50000 workers that have to be paid and may or may not be interested in the project, while an open source one can get 50000 workers every day, that are all passionate and interested in the project. In general, there are going to be more people who are skilled with free and open source software. Blender is a good example. As it gets better and catches up with proprietary software, more people I know know Blender nowadays compared to paid software.

As companies use more open source, they are also more likely to contribute. In one of the videos, the speaker talked about how they started as consumers of open source software, but as they built their own solutions, they contributed back to the industry as a whole.

### Oppia

Progress is still okay. I had to close my pull request and recreate it, since I messed up the branch while trying to update it. I also implemented some comments from a code reviewer. Hopefully this time, everything goes well and it gets merged eventually. I've also started looking at other issues I could take.