---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: git activity + more"
---

### Git exercise

I enjoyed the git exercises we did in class. While most of the commands I have used before, it was still good practice.<!--more--> One command I found useful that I haven't really used before is git log. I found it helpful when figuring out where I last left off using my last commit. This activity was also one of the first times I had manually merged two conflicting branches.

### Jim Hall

I forgot to set new recurring alarms for this class, so unfortunately I missed the live discussion. Instead, I'll comment on some of the articles I read.<br>

##### FreeDOS
One was the FreeDOS article, and the website as well. I didn't expect the project to still be going in 2022, because I was wondering what use cases it might have. For example, I hadn't thought about legacy software that was written for MS-DOS, not only for businesses but also games.

##### Wordle
This one wasn't really about open source (except using Linux), but I thought it was interesting. I've seen this youtube video on solving Wordle problems with these really optimal, complicated programs, but seeing a simpler version using command line commands like grep with regex was cool.

##### OSI Executive Director
One comment that I found interesting was about free software not always being better than proprietary software, but philosophically feeling better. Recently I've considered switching to Firefox. There are definitely some issues that I want fixed or features I miss from chrome, but I also do feel better about using Firefox.
Another thing was the talk about the knowledge gap, where "only a small percentage of people are familiar with the principles of open source software". Those reasons were some of the reasons I wanted to register for this class.