---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: first blog post"
---

### This is my first  blog post :)<br><br>

Open source makes me think about people being generous and spending their time and energy working on a product that is free for all, and that makes me happy 😃.<br>
A big difference between open source and closed source is that anyone can contribute to an open source project. This comes with both pros and cons.<br>

One benefit of open source is how (with a big enough project) you can get a large amount of people working on it for free. This means people fixing bugs or adding new features without asking for money in return.<br>
Each change is also peer-reviewed to make sure the code is good quality, which usually means things are easier to understand for people working on the project, but that happens in closed source too.<br>
Future software can also use and build on open source software, which benefits all of us.<br>

A problem with open source software comes from the ability for anyone to view the code, the same reason behind some benefits, which is security. While some people argue that more people means more people catching security issues, that's also more people who can find a vulnerability and take advantage of that.<br>
Also, if an open source project never takes off, there is usually no money to keep the project afloat since the project makes no money.<br><br>

I wanted to register for this class because I've always wanted to learn how to contribute properly to open source. It's intimidating to try and contribute if you don't understand the culture or norms of open source.<br><br>

### Some open source projects

One open source project I have to mention is Wikipedia. I'm sure we've all used it countless times. If a private group of people were to write all the information available on Wikipedia, it would be comparatively tiny.<br>
Another open source project is VS code. It's the text editor I use everyday. And just looking at the 5k+ github issues, I like to think that open source has benefitted the project.<br>
Another really important open source project I use reguarly is Chromium. The browser I use is built on Chromium.<br>
Lastly, Python is another open source project I use. I like Python, and it's cool to see everything from the Python website to CPython on github.