---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: codes of conduct"
---

### Why ❓❓

Many projects such as the Go project have codes of conduct, which can have a lot of benefits. The Go CoC page gives some reasons, but I'll put it in my own words.<!--more-->

The first: It sets some clear guidelines on what kind of behavior is expected when contributing. So generally, if people follow the code of conduct, everyone will be helpful and respectful to one another.

Another benefit of having a CoC is having something to reference when someone _isn't_ respectful. In Golang's CoC, they have the sections titles "Conflict Resolution". It gives instructions on dealing with violations of the CoC.

#### Golang's CoC vs Contributor Covenant's

One change is in the Conflict Resolution (Go)/Enforcement (CC) section, where the Go CoC is more detailed. They mention that not all complaints will receive a direct response, which isn't specified in the other CoC. My guess is that maybe with such a big project, direct responses to every report isn't feasible.

Another is in the Scope section, where the Go CoC has a little extra bit about the CoC applying outside of project spaces. This might be because they want consequences for unacceptable behavior even if it's not directly in project spaces.

[Eclipse CoC](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php
)<br>
It seemed to be like both the CoCs for Eclipse and the Go project had similar structures, but I guess one difference is Eclipse mention that the project maintainers work with the support of the Eclipse Foundation staff. This might be because Eclipse specifically has a foundation backing it.

#### Sugar Labs vs Go

The Sugar Labs CoC is based on another CoC. They based theirs on the Ubuntu CoC instead of the Contributor Covenant CoC.

#### [Node.js CoC](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/blob/HEAD/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Node's CoC is also based on the Contributor Coventant one. The major difference is that Node's goes into much more detail regarding punishment, listing out warning and bans.