---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: open source business models"
---

### Business models

I've always wondered how open source can makes companies money, so this class was informative. What we learned about AWS was just one business model built around open source.<!--more-->

##### Open core
One idea that was interesting me was open core. The reason this caught my eye goes back to the project evaluation we did earlier on FontAwesome.

When we were doing the evaluation, we had a lot of trouble trying to find out what exactly the code and assets in the repo did. We figured it couldn't be the service itself, since then the company wouldn't make any money. But now I understand that the project was open core; the proprietary part of FontAwesome was features like hosting your own icon packs and more. Given how confusing it was for us, it's not surprising companies would just pay for the ease of going through the company.

##### Advertising

I thought the advertisement option was interesting too, like the Firefox example in class where Mozilla had a deal with Yahoo. It's like Microsoft having the Edge browser, since a lot of people don't change the default settings.

##### GitHub and GitLab

I enjoyed learning about the differences between the two businesses. Obviously, both have git (open source) as the core part of their service, but they are actually more different than I imagined. The big one is that GitLab is open core while GitHub is mostly proprietary. It's also pretty interesting that companies prefer GitLab for inner soruce, while GitHub is better tailored to open source community projects. This would explain why the open source projects we see are much more commonly hosted on GitHub.

##### Tech support

The last business model I want to write about is the tech support one. I won't pretend to understand what working in IT at a company is like, but the experience that came to mind for me was installing Oppia. I personally wouldn't have paid to get guidance through the installation, but if I worked for a company and needed it to work properly for all the employees, paying for support would make a lot of sense.

### Project update

Our progress has been pretty good, after we all ironed out our installation issues.

When we had our meeting today (Sunday), Lev had made his first PR while Christian and I were still working. Just before writing this, I got my changes working and pushed. I'll likely make a pull request tommorow.