---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: project evaluation + videos"
---

### Project evalutation activity

Our project was Font Awesome, the icon library/toolkit. Though it wasn't my top choice, I had used Font Awesome before, and was surprised to learn a few things about it.<!--more-->

For one, I had no idea it was open source. I remembered that the service was free but had paid tiers, so I found it unexpected that it was open source. It was all very confusing. They had 3 or more different licenses, and there was no explanation of what their github repo was for.

I was also surprised to learn that the github was just a mirror of some other codebase. They mention that in the contributing document. It made me question why even have a github repo if it only has like 3 commits where 1 commit adds over 200,000 lines. The issues are mostly icons requests, and they really aren't very transparent with how to actually contribute to what should be an open source project.

To most people, Font Awesome feels like its basically closed source with a forum for requesting icons.

### Short videos

#### Food Computer

I thought this video and the concept were really interesting. being able to carefully control the enviroment the plant grows in to simulate any climate can be really useful. Some things that came to mind though, are if they can control the humidity, as well as how big they could make one of these "food computers." Lastly, I wonder if they have plans available somewhere to build a food computer, since the open source code wouldn't be very beneficial otherwise.

#### Farming for the Future

I was surprised by the second part of the video, with the MARSfarm food computer. It answered my previous concern about having some plan or kit available to build the same food computer for the open source code to run on. MARSfarm is providing kits, so more people can actaully test and improve the open source code.

I think the aquaponics project having kids share their data with each other was cool as well.