---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: The Cathedral and the Bazaar & more"
---

### *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*

I thought this reading was really interesting. One thing I thought was interesting was how he didn't outright say open source was better than closed software. Instead, he describes them as two different methods of development: a cathedral versus a bazaar.<!--more--> There are merits to both, and he sees that.

This reading answered some personal questions I had. One was how an open source project is started. I had always wondered how a truly open source project is created, since laying the basic groundwork through an open source workflow seemed too hard and inefficient. And the reading answered this by acknowledging that often times, a project has to be started as a "cathedral". However, once the beginnings are built, making the project open source has lots of benefits.

##### Some lessons

I liked the lessons in the reading. One in particular was the lessons about knowing what code to reuse. This really fits with the whole idea of forking projects and reusing that code to make your own version. I liked this one because I recently was looking at music players and found an open source one called Strawberry. It turns out it was a fork of another music player called Clementine. Strawberry probably wouldn't be where it is now if it didn't reuse code from Clementine.

Those music players also relate to another lesson: "When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor." The last version of Clementine was released some time in 2016 before development stopped, and Strawberry was only forked in 2018. If the creator of Clementine had passed off ownership to a successor, that would have been two extra years of development.

### Open source in global affairs

Open source has an interesting role. Formally, open source software should be open to all, and that includes any potentially bad actors in global affairs. However, it is interesting to think about what the right thing to is morally. Restricting access would violate the ideas of open source, but could prevent harm. Personally, I think it can be okay, but its not an easy decision.

### Selecting a project

There are a ton of options for projects I would like to contribute to out there. To narrow it down though, I have to consider how accessible it is to beginners. It doesn't matter how much I like a project, it won't be a good choice if I can't contribute anything.

With the project I choose, I'm hoping to make some impactful contributions. The hardest thing will be figuring out the code, and finding issues that suit me.