---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: final project & Tom Callaway"
---

### Project groups

This week we got together with our groups to choose a project to contribute to.<!--more--> We started with a few choices including freeCodeCamp, lichess, python arcade, and others. In the end, we decided on Oppia, a free learning platform.

##### Why Oppia

We chose Oppia because of how open they are to beginners. Their wiki has plenty of info and guidance for people just getting started with contributing to open source projects and codebases. They have many issues labeled as good for beginners as well. The comments on the issues are also full of welcoming discussion.

### Tom Callaway

This talk was interesting because it answered the questions lots of us had about how for-profit companies work with open source.

One thing I remember was when he mentioned the prevalence of open source in today's world. I had no idea such a high percentage of codebases had open source. Though it makes sense now, considering even popular languages like python are open source.

It was also interesting to learn about the characteristics of open source that interests companies. Things like more experienced people, faster innovation, and better quality software all make sense. It also surprised me that the customers also prefer open source, so the companies invest in open source.

Lastly, I was also surprised by AWS and their business model, which ties into the previous thing I said. Instead of tying their customers to proprietary solutions, they instead are flexible, using open source and letting their customers decide. I think it's cool that they are also using their scale and manpower to benefit open source projects.